Welcome. Hey, day four
of the Emotional Freedom Challenge.
We've been at it for three days already.
Thank you for hanging with me, by the way.
I am so honored by your presence. Uh, when
I show up here in the morning, I'm just excited to connect with you
again. This is a very emotionally and energetically
rich
experience that we're having together, and I get to be a participant in
that. So I think that's really
cool. Um, quick
summary. We-- In our challenge tasks, we've
done the gratitude power up. Hopefully, you're still
working on that, your twenty five-five.
Now, at this point, sometimes people say, "Well, I didn't
really do it very well." I can tell you how well you've done
it so far. Right
here. It is what it is. "Yeah, but I only did, like,
five the first day." It could always
be better. It could always be worse.
You're right on schedule wherever you are with it.
Remember, the challenge tasks are not to beat
yourself up because you're not better than you
thought you would be at it. Notice that
whatever it is, is perfect for you.
And even if you haven't done it yet, it's not too late,
okay? Get started. We've got the gratitude power
up. Then, day
two, we talked about doing better by
eight, BB8, which I invited you to
continue for the remaining four days of
the challenge. How is that going? Some of you have checked in on
Facebook. I really appreciate your sharing your
experiences, by the way. Please do that.
Share what's going on for you, because these principles
are universal.
Uh, they're natural laws. They're like gravity.
They apply to all of us. So this is our story
with your details. When you share, you're giving details
that other people are gonna be re-- be able to relate to.
Thank you for sharing. And then on day three, I kind of turned things upside
down on you yesterday. I've got my watch back on the left
hand today. Um, switched it over to the right hand.
I thought it was fun, um... Was it, uh-- It was the Lambrights.
Vaughn and Yolande Lambright had commented there in the
Facebook group about using the left hand.
I'm right-handed, and I think-- I don't know if it was Vaughn or
Yolande, but, you chose to, instead of
using your right hand, you used your left hand for everything, to feed
yourself. So cool. When you turn it upside
down,
it's awkward, it's uncomfortable. I get that.
Get comfortable with being
uncomfortable. I
know. We get addicted to comfort.
Uh, in fact, one of the books that we read in, in my private
clients group, the Positivity Artisans group, is called The
Comfort Crisis
by Michael Easter. And he
illuminated this to us, that we have,
this addiction, really, to comfort.
We have structured a world around us
that is largely free from
discomfort. Get comfortable
with being uncomfortable, because when we
change the patterns in our brain, it doesn't
feel right.
It, it-- Like, Vaughn and Yolande, when you were doing the left
hand experience yesterday for our upside down challenge
task, it's not easy. It's not comfortable.
It's awkward. Things take a longer time. It's not what you're used to.
Your brain tells you this is not right.
We are doing some training on how to operate the equipment of your own
mind,
and it's not going to feel natural or right to you.
It's going to be a little foreign at first, so stick with
it.
So today is day four, and my
promise to you today is to create a
context.
And
we're going to expand a little bit.
So let's start with the context, because that will give us the reason
why we get to talk about the second piece, which is a
model that I've developed. It's called the Influence
Quadrant. So let's jump right in with the
context first. Are you with me on this?
What, what we're going to put out as the
context is our seven
key
relationships.
Okay, seven key relationships. Every-everything
that we do here
in, in my business at, Live on Purpose. Can you see that?
It's a little out of the screen there. That's a little better.
Ooh, those fonts are interesting, aren't they? These pens, I don't know what it is.
They don't have very good fonts. The, the seven
key relationships
are the context in which everything else happens.
So remember back to day one, I told you a little bit
about my experience with my grandson,
little Ezzy, who's three years old, and he wanted to go see a
raccoon that's not so dead. Do you remember that story?
And, and my realization in that moment was
that because positivity saved
Paul-Now I can provide a grampy
for Ezzy who's there in the back seat in, in his car seat
that's not so dad. When we get
emotionally hijacked, we don't
show up in the way that we ideally could for our
grandkids,
for our spouse, for our coworkers, for our
clients and customers, whoever it is.
So we break these relationships down into the
seven key relationships and the principles that we
c- talk about here, we've talked about this one primarily,
but there's other models, I'll be introducing you to this one
today,
that save and enrich
our seven key relationships, allowing
us to bring about that peace of mind and heart, that
confidence in our roles and relationships
and hope for better things to come.
Here are the seven keys, and,
I'm, I'm starting with one that
I think you'll connect to.
Your creator.
Now, disclaimer, I am not here as your spiritual guide
or your rabbi or your priest.
I'm acknowledging
that we all... I think we have this innate
need to connect with source.
Where did we come from?
And that's what I'm listing here as creator.
Now, I have my beliefs about this. You have your beliefs about this.
Whatever it is, most people believe in some
entity or higher power that they consider to
be their creator. That's the first
relationship. It actually gives context to
the others. As I share this list with
you, I should have given this disclaimer upfront
too, this is just my opinion,
okay? But I have earned my opinion
through
almost 60 years on the planet. My twin sister turns
60 in May. Almost 60 years on the
planet, and over three decades, almost four
decades now as a professional
psychologist. This is where I've earned my opinion.
I'm not saying I'm right. I'm saying that in my
experience, these are your seven key relationships,
and they come in this order of
priority.
When I see people get them out of order, I don't see them
experiencing peace in their mind and heart and confidence in their
roles and relationships and hope for better things to come.
It gets out of balance. I think you see what I mean. Let's go to the second one.
Self.
Some people skip this one. They don't even realize that
it's a relationship, and they'll go out there and be so kind and
considerate and forgiving to everyone
except for one, where they are
cruel and demanding and
unforgiving
right here.
How you treat yourself
will affect every other relationship on the
list. Every one.
If you haven't noticed that yet, pay attention.
When it, it's like me in the car with Ezzy, okay?
I gotta provide a grampy for him that's not so dad.
That's what he needs.
So it's not about me. It's about how
this bubbles out to every other key relationship in our life.
So this is one that I've really specialized with over my career.
As a professional psychologist, I've spent a lot of time here.
Forgiveness, for example, is one of the core principles that allows
us to
save and enrich all of our key relationships.
That forgiveness is sometimes easy to grant to
others, and we're a little stingy about that with ourselves.
Let me just ask you this. If I
treated you and talked to you like you treat you and talk to
you, would we still be friends?
Or would you run fast the other direction?
Let's pay attention to that, and there's strategies and principles that we
can apply. Hopefully, you've already discovered some of those if y- as you've been
on the calls this week, as you've leaned into this
emotional freedom challenge.
All right. Next one.
Spouse.
Are you married or in a partnership or
significant relationship with someone that you would put at this
level? If you are, that's
next. Um,
there's three here that I'm going to kind of l- lump together
here. Children
and extended
family.
Now,
the reason I'm lumping those together is because they could all be grouped into a
category that we call family, right?
Now, people will usually acknowledge, yeah, family is really
important. Um, family is one of my key
relationships.
But not all family are created equal, are
they?And I'm not saying that they're not
important. Let me tell you where I'm coming from on this, because for
thirteen years
in my earlier career when I was a
psychotherapist
and an evaluating psychologist, I, I
did during that thirteen years child
custody evaluations for the court
where bitter, angry, divorcing people cannot figure out how to share their
kids, and the court sent me in to try to
sort all of that out. That's yuck work.
And I have heard people
before say things like,
"Well, my spouse is really important to me, but
my kids come first." Okay,
now, I can appreciate the sentiment because I am
known for positive parenting. That's where the YouTube channel
really took off, is I was sharing these principles with parents
specifically. You can go look at that if you want.
It's Live On Purpose TV over on YouTube.
We've got a- almost half a million subscribers now.
What, what is it that they got out of
order? "I love my spouse, but my
children come first."
Okay, I spent a lot of time in my early career trying to sort
out the mess after people got it out of order.
Um, I'm not saying your kids aren't important.
They made the list.
I'm saying there's a priority, and I believe after doing thirteen
years of child custody evaluations, that the best gift you can
give your kids
is parents who love each other.
Now, I, I will qualify that because I know some of us
go through a little experience that we call
divorce, and I work with a lot of families in
that context, even still today, but in a very different way
because I believe that there is a way to apply the nine
principles that allow us to establish and maintain successful
families, regardless of whether that's a
single household family or a multi-household
family. Divorce, in my mind, is not
dismantling a family. It's creating
a multi-household family which is established and
maintained on the same principles.
Um, we're not getting into the nine principles in
this course. I'll... I've done a master class on that.
I'll probably offer it again. But let me give them to you real quick, okay?
So that you'll know what they are. Positivity is first.
Oh, big surprise, Dr. Paul, the, the core
principle for operating the equipment of your own mind is the first
principle
for establishing and maintaining successful marriages and
families, whether they're single or multi-household families.
Positivity. Values, what's important to you, and
we're talking about the key relationships today in their order of
importance. Okay? Humility,
which is giving up your need to be right
in exchange for being open. And the number one
error we make as humans is that we believe what we think.
We know we're right, and that has us treating each other
terribly. Forgiveness is number four.
I just mentioned that one. It's hard to forgive ourselves.
Guess how hard it is to forgive an
ex? That's not easy,
but it's very effective. Okay? Respect is number
five. Love,
and you don't have to be married to someone to love
them, and it's not easy to love an ex,
but it sure does serve your kids well.
Respect, work, and wholesome
recreation.
Okay? There's the nine principles. No, I'm not gonna repeat them.
You can go back and listen to the recording at some point, or somebody put it in
the chat if you want to. This is the way we
establish and maintain successful families.
So when we're talking about family,
your spouse, what if you're
divorced? Okay, let's apply
the principles in, in a divorce situation, or maybe you are not
married or in a significant relationship.
The list can contract or expand depending on which of
these relationships you actually have. You may not have children.
No problem. Okay? So the list will con- contract or expand
depending on where you are. I
would suggest, since I brought it up,
that if you are in a multi-household family,
you will still include your ex on this list, and they
probably land right here in the extended family
category. All of the principles are still the same. All right?
Now, don't start asking me where does my pet fit?
We're a dog family, and we know that they fit into the family somewhere.
You decide. But this is, the
order. Now, I've only put five. I told you there were
seven. Okay, now, this is
interesting. Um, one of the principles also that we're
not gonna get into on this particular master class, this, this
challenge, is called
happynomics. That's a whole other model.
It's the title of one of my upcoming books which hopefully is nearing
completion. It always takes longer than you think.
There is a break right here
at this point-Fundamentally
in the nature of these seven key relationships, okay?
And I'll explain that a little bit here today, but stay tuned because there's
more. The extended family is followed now
by other people.
This includes
people in your neighborhood, people in your community
or in your church or synagogue, people who you serve,
your clients, your customers, p- your vendors,
people who p- who coach you, your
colleagues, a-
anybody outside of your family basically.
It's the starving children in some third world country,
okay? They all make the list because those people are
important to you. They're not as important as your
family,
okay? Now, I, I put a break here because
you're going to notice something, and in the Happynomics model we teach this to
positivity practitioners. I'll tell you a little more about the practitioner
idea here in just a few minutes.
That, the people above the line
here
or the relationships, okay? I'll say relationships.
Above the line, as you take care of
and provide value for those key
relationships, there is no
exchange of money.
It's a direct exchange of value.
For the ones below the line, and I'm going to put the last one there
so that we can include that in the conversation,
things,
meaning stuff including property, including
money.
When we create value below the line, we
do it in a way that allows for an economic
exchange. So taking care of
people who are not in your family
will result in economic
consequences. Okay. I say consequences and people are
like, "No, that's good." Yeah, consequences just means
con, which means with, sequence, which means some, you know,
order. It comes with
whatever you just did, and as you create value for them,
the consequence that comes with it is some kind of
an economic exchange, and that's because
we don't know
how to create value for other people
like we do for our family.
All right? My daughter can come up to me and give me a big hug, and it's like,
"Oh, thank you. I needed that." Um,
somebody on the street can come up and give me a big hug, and I'm like,
"That was weird. That was awkward." Right?
So,
we trade
money
below the line. We have a direct exchange of value above the
line.
Now, I've just listed
your seven key relationships. This is the context
in which we get to practice
influence.
All right, so let's go there next. What I'm about to share with
you is called the Influence Quadrant,
and I'm going to try something a little different today.
I'm, I'm used to when I do virtual
presentations for corporations or for groups that have hired
me to come and speak, I always share my screen.
This challenge is the first time that I've
tried sh- being on Zoom and live streaming to
Facebook at the same time. I'm gonna push another button and see if I can share my
screen with you. Here's Dr. Paul on his
learning curve.
All right, here we go. Let's try this.
There.
I'm hoping you can see this.
I think you probably can. All right.
Um,
I invite you to focus for a moment on
where your focus is.
All right, where your focus is. This is a
process called metacognition.
Metacognition is thinking about thinking.
So as, as we have interactions with our fellow
humans... Um, actually, I need to say something else first because
this is important. Please pay
attention. Put this in your notes somewhere.
We
do not
control
the other humans.
Are we good? Okay. You may, you may be
like, "What? We don't?" And especially as
parents. Well, parents are an interesting case because we don't
control the other humans except for
our children
for a while.
It's temporary, and if you don't believe that, they'll prove it to
you.
Now, we have a whole other model for that.
It's called, the moral development model.
That's what we get into in our parenting programs, and it's one of the models that
our positivity practitioners
use and are certified to share with people.The, but
for the most part, let's just accept that we don't
control the other humans.
So our only chance as we interact with other humans
has to do with influence, not control.
That's how I'm defining it. How do we
create influence? So I
invite you to go to metacognition, think about your thinking.
Let's pull this slide back up
as I share the visual with you. Think
about your thinking,
and when you're interacting with another person,
where is your focus? I've given you two
options here when it relates to the emotional
energy of that interaction. So
as I interact with you... Now, put this in first person so you
can own it, okay?
As I interact with you, where is my focus?
Is my focus on how I feel,
or is my focus on how you feel?
Notice it's gonna be in one of those.
Uh, just had an opportunity last night.
Saw some of you there, by the way, at our National Speakers
Association Mountain West Chapter meeting, and there was a lot of
interaction going on in the room. And I was
be- I was thinking about today, and I was trying to be very aware of, where's my
focus? Am I focused on how I feel? Am I
focused on how you feel as I was interacting with people?
It's a powerful exercise. So
take your awareness there because awareness precedes choice.
All right. Now, forget about the feeling for a minute.
What is the content, the
content of this interaction? Is this
about me, or is this about
you?
Is it about me? Is it about you? Now, what we're going to do
is overlay those two
components. So we've got the emotional energy or the
feelings, and we've got the content of the
interaction, and it, w- the colors blend and form
these nice little quadrants that make it really easy to
talk about these. And we'll go through each one individually so that you can get
this, but just notice my focus is either how
I feel about me,
or over to the orange, how you feel about
me, or down to the purple, it's how I feel about
you,
or in the green quadrant, how you feel about
yourself. Again,
where is my focus?
What's my come from? That's the question that I invite you to
ask as we get into the influence quadrant.
All right. I am going to go through all four
of those,
and
I thought, you
know what? It was so much fun giving away...
I gave-- Rachel, you got chocolate yesterday.
ChocoLove. You guys go check it out,
ChocoLove. I know there's a website for it.
You can order gift boxes of these deluxe,
gorgeous, chocolates. Um,
and Rachel, I hope you enjoy it.
Let's do another giveaway. You guys down for that?
All right. Here's what we're going to do.
I am going to put the link back in here.
It's
drpauljenkins.com/drawing.
Okay. I put it in the link here in the VIP room
or in the chat. Um, Natasha, if you're on Facebook,
could you go pop that into the Facebook too?
Again, it's drpauljenkins.com, all one word.
Don't put a doctor dot Paul Jenkins, 'cause that
messes up the URL. D-R
Pauljenkins.com/drawing.
I'm going to leave this open for
a little while,
a little while, while we talk about the influence quadrant, and then somebody
remind me, 'cause I don't wanna forget.
Here's what I'm giving away today.
And I thought about it beforehand.
I'm like, "I'd like to give away some little, you know, toy
or trinket or prize or whatever," and I might do that again too, but
here's what I felt to offer today, a private
one-on-one
coaching session
with me,
and I don't offer these anymore. The, my practice
is limited to the Positivity Artisans group, and
that's not for everyone. It's a high-ticket, high-touch
experience, but I felt this morning to offer that to you.
So you get... If you win the drawing, and I'm gonna just
have a random selection again, if you win the drawing, you get a
private one-on-one coaching session with me.
And when I say one-on-one, if you've got your significant other you wanna bring
along, that's totally fine. You can bring whoever you want.
But we'll set up an hour
where it's just you and me, and we'll dive
in. Whatever you wanna talk about, you can't shock
me, okay? T- I mean, in three decades as a
professional psychologist, you can't shock me.
Bring it, okay? Whatever it is you're working on, whatever it is you
need,
drpauljenkins.com/drawing.And
we will, we'll see who wins. Um, I just realized as
I shared that, that, I don't have Lindy here in the back office to
help me, ah,
figure out who won. So I'm gonna have to take a moment here in a minute
to go see who won.
That's okay. You guys are patient. All right.
Let's get back to the seven key
relationships.
Um, I-- The influence quadrant, because the seven key relationships
are the context in which we get to apply the
influence quadrant. Let's go back to the slides.
And hopefully you've had a chance to enter. I made it a really short form today.
Just give me your name,
and I-- Oh, I just remembered. I put in there you can give me your
phone number or
your email address. If y- either
one, I am going to send you a private link to sign up
for that one-on-one coaching session if you're the winner, okay?
So make sure I've got a way to connect with you.
I'm not shipping anything physically this
time. But that could change in tomorrow's
giveaway. I'm thinking I'll give away something tomorrow too.
Okay, let's go back to the influence quadrant.
What we're going to do next is break this down so that we can take a look
at each of these quadrants
on its own. Now let's go red first.
When I'm-- when my focus
in an interaction, now this could be with my kids, this could
be on a sales call, this could be with one of my
clients,
it could be with a colleague, it could be in a networking meeting, it could be in a
team meeting at work, whatever, okay?
If my focus is on how I feel
about me, it sounds
kind of like this: Ah,
am I good enough? Do I have this? Do I even know what
I'm doing here? Am I smart
enough? Am I cute enough?
Do I even know what I'm doing?
All right, that's red.
Now I'm giving you some kind of, I don't know,
negative examples
because this is also red. You know
what? I think I'm awesome. I think I'm
all that and a bag of
chips. It could be positive or negative
either way, if the focus is on how I feel about me.
I want to give you a little warning to the predictable
psychological consequences of
being in the red here. I call it
self-consciousness. And I am not
talking about a healthy sense of self-awareness or
mindfulness. That's not what we're talking about here.
I'm talking about that, oh, am I good enough
kind of a feel.
Self-consciousness.
All right. So just connect with that.
See if there are times when
you're experiencing self-consciousness, and then check and
see, where is my focus? Oh, this is how
I feel about me.
Now, very closely related to it is the orange quadrant, except
there's a little bit of shift here.
Now my focus
is on how you feel about
me. Do you like
me? Do you approve of me? Do you think I'm
good enough, smart enough, cute enough?
Do you think I know what I'm doing?
I told you I was at the National Speakers Association last night, and we have a
lot of early career speakers
in our chapter. They're-- They hang out with some of us old guys
to learn the ropes and, and see how to build,
their speaking business or their speaking presence.
And a lot of them are like, "Oh, are people gonna like me?"
Okay, that's orange. Are they gonna think that I'm, I'm
out of my league here? Uh, do, do they think
I know what I'm doing?
Imposter syndrome
is a form of, this orange quadrant,
okay? Now, and notice how that feels.
The predictable psychological pitfall
that we run into in the orange quadrant is called
insecurity.
Insecurity. We are depending
on
external validation in order to feel good about ourselves,
and that feels risky because it could change at any
time. That's
orange.
It-- I invite you to check in also with the emotional energy
of this because whether it's red or
orange, guess where we are?
Anxiety,
big time.
Okay, now when we got into the,
the positivity model... Let's go to the other model.
When we got into the positivity model, you remember I told you that
this is anxiety in creation mode when we are predicting worse
things to come. Now, we have expanded our
understanding of where anxiety comes from because when we
feel self-consciousness or
insecurity, both forms of
anxiety, that comes from our
focus being in the red or orange
quadrants. Anxiety.
Okay? It's all about
me.Wait, what?
If it's all about me,
I'm going to feel some anxiety.
Now, even th- this is even if it's positive because if
people approve of me, and that's why I feel okay, people are giving me
good feedback, nobody's hating me or giving me the thumbs
down on social media or canceling me out there,
then I'm okay. And, and just notice how
tenuous that is, how fragile
it is to rely on that external
validation,
and that's why it creates a threat for our
brain. And threat kicks us into a chemical
response called the fight or flight response, and we
experience that
as anxiety, fear, apprehension,
kind of a foreboding feeling that things are not gonna be
okay. It's, it's fine to feel it.
It's not fun to feel that, but it's fine.
I mean, there you go being a human again.
I invite you to notice where your focus is.
This is all about me. Uh, I remember a time when my
daughter, the amazing Lindy, who is one of
our master coaches now, years ago she
was, doing a volunteer mission for our church where she was
proselyting and functioning as a leader
of other missionaries.
And there was a time when we had a little chat about
some anxiety she was feeling, and she already knew this Influence
Quadrant model, but she hadn't applied it in this new setting, this new context
where she was. And I think I, I, I asked her something
like, "Where's your focus, sweetie?
Where's your focus?" And she knew the model, and she got
it immediately. She's like, "Oh,
this is all about me. This is all about how I feel about me or how I think
they feel about me." When she made it not about her
anymore, when she focused on them, the anxiety
disappeared, and she was able to function
powerfully as a leader in that
group. Okay. I am going
to, if you will excuse me
briefly while I pull
up... Here it is. All
right. I'm gonna go see
who
is winning.
All right. And again, my apologies.
If you haven't entered yet, do it really fast 'cause I'm gonna go check
drpauljenkins.com/drawing,
D-R-A-W-I-N-G,
in five, four,
three, two, one. I'm sorry, time's
up.
All right. Now we are going to randomly
select
someone from this list, and the way I'm gonna do that is
right here.
All right.
The winner... Oh, I just saw him last
night. Martin Hurlbert.
Congratulations, Martin. You just won the drawing for
today. Martin is actually a member of our
National Speakers Association chapter.
And Martin, you won. Your name was
drawn. Sweet. Congratulations,
Martin.
All right. We'll have another giveaway tomorrow.
I've got something fun in mind for tomorrow that goes right along with what we'll
be talking about tomorrow. So Martin, I will reach out to
you, and you and I will schedule a private
consultation, coaching session.
We can use that time however you want.
Sound good? Looking forward to it.
Thank you everyone for entering. I,
I think that'll be... See, I gave myself a
prize.
Th- this whole, challenge is a prize for me.
I'm, I'm having so much fun with you guys this week. All right.
Let's go back to the Influence Quadrant.
I think... I think we're in a
position right now where, we don't like our
options so far. Let's drop down to
purple.
Now,
it's not about me
anymore. Do you remember as my daughter shifted from it's all
about me to it's not about me, anxiety
goes away.
Now, in the purple, my focus is on how
I feel
about you. Do I like you?
Do I trust you? Do I think you're making
good choices? Hello, parents. Does that sound familiar?
Do I approve of your actions or behaviors?
Do I think you're smart enough? Do I think you're cute enough?
Do I think you know what you're doing?
This is purple,
and the predictable pitfall that we run into in
purple is called
criticism.
Um,
can I just make an observation here?
Because criticism does not have
to be real or intended.
As long as it is
perceivedIt works
okay? As long as it's perceived and I've been a professional
psychologist for several decades now. Guess what?
I'm really good at offending
people.
People feel criticized whether I intend it to be
criticism or not, and I've tried to develop my skills so that I approach it in
a way that's not intentionally critical.
But criticism doesn't have to be real or intended
for it to kick us off into a negative spiral.
So please practice a lot of grace
with your fellow humans. They will probably
accuse you of things that you never
did, or at least intended to do, or they've misperceived.
So that's a little disclaimer as we get into that.
But check your own heart. Check your own
mind. Check to see where is
my focus, and if my focus is on how
I feel about you, we're
probably gonna bump up against criticism.
Listen, I mentioned parents earlier, okay?
One of my things that I'm known for...
And I didn't intend this, it just happened.
Um, I, I spent my early career, about
thirteen, thirteen to fifteen years I spent doing
traditional outpatient psychotherapy, primarily
for children, adolescents, and families.
And I also got into the yuck work of those child custody evaluations I
t- I told you about, and, got a lot of clinical
experience. I've put up everything
that I know on YouTube. There's over a thousand videos on our YouTube
channel. And, and one of the things that parents run into all the
time
is that their kids feel
judged and criticized. I, I have interviewed
thousands of children and teenagers who have
expressed this sentiment, "I
can never be good enough for
them." Meaning, their parents. Where does that come from?
See, it's pretty natural for us as parents or as
leaders, and if there are leaders here-- I know there are leaders here in
the room. Pay attention to this because the people that you lead
are subject to what your focus is,
and if your focus is on how you feel
about your employees,
they are going to be criticized. And this is true
even if it's positive.
Now, I, I have... I
have a bias toward positivity. But even if it's positive, check this
out. I pat you on the head,
okay? I
really approve of you. Good job.
All right. Even if it's positive, and I
overemphasize that to make a point, what gives
me
the right
to approve of you? It
puts me here, it puts you
there. And parents are at a particular risk for this.
So are managers, leaders, CEOs. Because I'm
here, you're there, and any time we have this power
differential, we are at risk of
falling into that purple quadrant.
Um, there's ways that this interacts with the positivity model, too, and
without getting into all those details, I invite you to notice where
your focus is. And if I'm working with my kids
and I'm thinking, "Do I approve of them?
Do I think they're making good life choices?" I don't even have kids anymore.
I have adults that grew up in my home
and, and it's becoming even more obvious in this phase of life
that I don't control the other humans.
I did control them for a little while.
That was temporary, and then they took over the control and
moved, three of them to other time
zones. So we don't control the other
humans. Get that through your head or
continue to stumble around in that purple quadrant where people
will feel judged and criticized. And
it's gonna sting a little if you notice that you're in
it. And that's okay, because the good news
is your hands are on the wheel now.
The bad news is also the good news. All right.
Let's go green. Oh, but first, I, I, I wanted to
acknowledge also whether it's red or purple, if
it's about how I feel,
it's judgment. We're going stripe-- straight into that
evaluation mode, and we are declaring a
judgment. Whether it's about myself, that anxious
self-judgment, that self-consciousness or whether it's
about the critical judgment of others.
Either way, we're in judgment. I've given you three
quadrants. I haven't given you a lot of hope yet.
And one of the promises for this week is hope.
I showed you through the positivity model how you can create that.
But let's go green.
And you're going to notice something. You're going to feel something here.
How you feel about
you. When my focus shifts, it's no longer
about me. How I feel is only secondary.
I go into the green quadrant. Now my
focus is all about how you feel
about you. We were talking with the
speakers last night about how if they go into an audience, and they're in any of
those other quadrants, it's not gonna land.They
need to serve their audience with a heart in the
green quadrant. This is what I call the influence quadrant
I'm hoping as you see this that some lights are going on for you.
Awareness precedes choice
Awareness precedes choice. As you
become aware of this
notice which quadrant you're in
Notice what the potential pitfalls are for each of those quadrants.
Two things happen as you get into the green two things happen
number one
People will love you. Oh, they will they'll
love you. They'll want to be around you They will feel drawn to
you
They'll want to hang out. They never want you to leave their
life
But
if you're doing it for that purpose, it's not green.
It's orange
if you really need people to like you
See, that's how how you feel about me.
That's where my focus is now that becomes orange and it creates
insecurity you cannot fake it
and This is an art
as Much as it is a science
it can be developed. There are skill sets that you can develop I do
leadership trainings. I coach executives about this
because a lot of executives are trapped in that
purple and
In the red and orange without even knowing it and they want to have
influence But they're having a different impact on their teams.
This happens with parents, too. I Promised I told you
there's two things that happen. One is that people will love you
The second thing that happens is you will have
influence
You will have influence
You will impact people's lives in powerful ways
but
If you're doing it for that purpose,
it's not green
purple
Think about it. What if you go into the interaction saying I really need to
help this person now as noble as that
sounds It's I'm here. You're there.
It's that power differential that we talked about earlier
and It doesn't have the influence that a
true
Influence quadrant would bring about
All right, I'm thinking you're probably Noticing some things
will you share in the Facebook group share what your
experience is with this what's turning on for you?
What is your experience with it? What can you do with this?
Where can you use this? Now
tomorrow I'm going to be sharing some things and I've mentioned
this a little bit here today the positivity
practitioner Services
community that we offer here at live on
purpose is something that I want to share with you And I'm
not here to sell it to you, but I have no business
withholding it from you Let me share where we're going with
this. Okay, there are three
Levels, I think
At least it's simple to break it down into that three levels of
engagement With the positivity
principles that we're talking about that bring about
emotional freedom
and Knowledge is not the same thing as mastery
so
With that in mind my first invitation to you
is to reach out
to the person who invited you
You know, I did something a little different this time around because I've done
webinars and web classes and master classes
Forever. Okay a couple of decades now
and This is the first time that instead of saying well, I'm gonna
go invite a bunch of people I went and invited
a bunch of people
who have influence already
and Who may want to serve their people?
So I'm inviting you in this moment to think who is it that invited me
and it might have been me You might have seen it on YouTube.
You may have received an invitation from someone you
already trust
and I have too many partners who agreed to share this to list
them all But I've introduced you to a few of them in the VIP room.
Some of you guys know who I'm talking about
Reach out to whoever invited you and
Thank them. Will you do that? That's not the official
challenge for today. I'll get to that in just a minute
but
if You will reach out to them and thank them remember
be in the green. This is not about how you feel about yourself it's not about
how you feel about them, although that's going to
Show up for you somewhere get your heart and mind in that green
How do they feel about themselves and can you thank them
sincerely?
In a way that shows them the gratitude that you have for the way they are
upgrading your life That person may also have
some services available to you and I'm going to
explain levels of engagement because
If someone invited you you're already connected to them
They probably are engaging you at some level and
it might be that you get their emails You get their social
media updates you get little drips from them
occasionally and I do this for people too That's this
levelUm, I'm leaving tomorrow or
Saturday, it depends on which flight we can get, to go out to Chicago to see some
of our grandkids
and there's a lot of ways to get to Chicago.
You can walk or ride a bike. Okay, that's what I'm saying
at this level
and I live in the mountains of Utah.
I mean, Chicago would be a long walk for me, or bike
ride, or even a drive, right? But what if we
upgrade that a little bit? What if we get into a car
or take a train? Okay, now we just got there a
lot faster.
What if we get on an airplane, which is my plan for this trip.
What if we get on an airplane? Okay, well, that's a whole lot faster.
So just think about that. Our destination is
hope
for better things to come.
Confidence in all of our roles and
relationships. Peace
in our mind and heart. And I'm guessing that
whoever invited you, because I know I reached out to a lot of
coaches and people who provide services to help you get
there, they're offering something.
Thank them and consider whatever they're
offering. Will you do that?
Now, I know some of you may be thinking, "Well, Dr.
Paul, what are you offering?" I've talked about
different levels of engagement with me.
I'm not gonna talk about the plane because that's not for everybody.
That's reassuringly expensive. That's where we hold your hand.
We kind of do it for you.
In, and, and the lower end is a general
membership that we offer. For a low monthly price you can come in
and get your daily, weekly, monthly positives.
This is the level I want to talk about because for you to lean
in to me means you go from being a
consumer of positivity to becoming a
practitioner
of positivity.
Um, I'm going to have Jeff and Natasha put a link into the chat
on both Facebook and here in the VIP room.
It's, it's
theemotionalfreedomchallenge.com/special.
Now, I'm gonna talk about this a little bit more tomorrow, but if you
already know you want to engage at a higher level, if you want to
get there faster, what we've created
is a community, a container
where you get to be with other people who are ready to
play at that level, and this level is perfect
for parents, for coaches, for
speakers, for influencers, people
who are ready to not only consume
principles of positivity, but to begin to
practice them on a regular basis and share them with
other people. That's what we're doing in that community.
You'll see if you go to the link,
theemotionalfreedomchallenge.com/special, it'll
list a few of the features. One reason I'm excited for
this particular challenge week is that one of the
features of being in that positivity practitioner community, and you get
in for a full year by the way when you jump in,
we do quarterly breakthrough events.
The next one is going to be April sixteenth and seventeenth.
Those are full-day events. They are also virtual, so you don't have to get on a
plane. But I will get in the room with you, and we will go
deep into the things that we've covered this week
on a higher level that puts you in
position not only to practice it effectively in your life
and relationships, but positions you to share it with
others. Some of you in th... And that's one of the
features, okay? But you also get, an option to
become certified in those models if you want a professional
certification to use in whatever your business is.
You may not be interested in that, and you just want to upgrade how you
create a culture within your
organization or your family.
Wherever you're working in your seven key relationships,
this takes it to a higher level. Okay?
So if you would go take a look at it. Um,
some of you also, both here in the VIP room and
in Facebook, are already in that community.
Share what your experience is. We would love to know. Okay?
And I'm not telling you what to say. Go share whatever your experience has been.
Let's get to today's challenge.
I, I... The shortcut for this one is called free
three. Free three, and what
it means is over the next ideally twenty-four
hours, but you can take until the end of the challenge, which is over at the end
of tomorrow, okay? By the end of the challenge,
make a meaningful difference
in the lives of three
people
from different levels in your key
relationships. You get to pick what that is, but I would
pick three. Maybe, maybe, maybe it's for
yourself. Make a meaningful difference for yourself.
Uh, that's okay, but what if you were to look down here?
Can I make a meaningful difference for my spouse, for one or more of my
children, for a member in my extended family, for other people, one of my clients,
or... You pick three, okay? I don't care who it is.
Make a meaningful difference
so that you can free them emotionally. All right?
Now, I'm not saying it's your responsibility to free them. That's theirs.
But make a meaningful difference, and that's why I call it free
three. Pick three-And
serve them in some way from the green
from this space
where it makes a meaningful difference.
Stretch a little. If it doesn't make you a little
uncomfortable
you're probably not thinking big enough.
So this is not the regular stuff. Well, I make dinner for my family every day.
That's a meaningful difference. No.
Come up with something on purpose, and I'm not saying that that's bad.
I mean, serve the way you normally serve but pick three special
things that you could do to serve
others and make a meaningful difference in their
life. How you do that, totally up to
you. But that's the challenge. Three,
three. Are you in? Make a meaningful difference.
All right, you guys. Thank you for being here.
We've gone a couple of minutes over.
Um, you can leave whenever you want, though.
I am going to stop the Facebook feed.
Uh, the recording will be available up until we start tomorrow
for this session. Still not too late to invite people to join
us. If you feel to invite someone to this community,
would love to have them on board, and tomorrow,
tomorrow we are getting into the
commitments. Okay? We're gonna talk about confidence and
commitment. I've been holding off on the confidence piece until we get to
tomorrow. Okay? Hopefully you're feeling a little more hope, a little
more, peace in your mind and heart.
Confidence is coming up for tomorrow, and we've got everything that we need to take
that next step. I'll look forward to it. We'll see you then.
VIP people stick around, and we'll see all of our
friends there on Facebook tomorrow.
See you then.
There we go. We just stopped
the live stream.